In this video I'm going to demonstrate how OSP version three routers conform neighbor relationships
without you manually configuring IP addresses on interfaces.
In other words in this topology we'll form a neighbor relationship between router 1 and rudder 2 without
configuring IP version 6 addresses on the gigabit 00 interfaces.
This will demonstrate how SPF forms and neighbor relationships using link local addresses and doesn't
require IP version 6 addresses to be configured or IP version 4 addresses.
So in this topology the two writers have just booted up.
There is no configuration on the Rogers I'll bypass the initial configuration dialog so that we can
configure the rudders manually so the right on the left will call right a 1 show IP right shows us that
there are no IP version for rights available on this rather show IP vs 6 rot shows us that there are
no IP version 6 ruts available on the strata at the moment these rowdies have just booted up again with
no configuration so show IP brought no IP vision for Roth's show IP vs 6 rout no IP version 6 runs show
IP interface brief no IP addresses configured on Route 1 show IP 6 interface brief shows us that they
are on no IP version 6 addresses
same on the site show IP interface brief no IP version for addresses.
Show IP vs 6 interface brief no IP version 6 addresses configured Okay so IP vs 6 unique cost routing
needs to be enabled for us to use a wispy P.F. what we'll do now is enable SPF as a writing protocol
the writer will complain as you can see there that no writer I.D. can be selected and that's because
we have no IP version 4 dresses configured so I need to select a right I.D. in dotted decimal notation
such as the following IP vs 6 unit cost routing IP vs 6 Roorda or SPF 1
Once again we need to configure a right I.D. I'll configure the side as to toe to toe to toe to so show
IP vs 6 SPF interface brief shows us that 0 SPF is not enabled on any interfaces on the router what
we have to do is go onto interfaces
and enable IP vs 6 on an interface
and then enable a wispy P.F. on that interface.
So on this side gigabit 00 IP vs 6 enable to enable IP vs 6 on the gigabit 00 interface and then IP
vs 6 0 SPF process ideas one area will set to zero.
So now show IP vs 6 0 SPF interface brief shows us that 0 SPF is enabled on gigabit 0 0 with a process
idea of 1 in area 0 at the moment to the is down and that's probably because I didn't enable the interface
so let's do that.
So now show IP vs 6 0 SPF interface brief.
Notice the state is set to wait on no shut the interface on the side.
Show IP the 6 interface or SPF interface brief or SPF is enabled on gigabit 00 in area 0 using a SPF
process 1.
The state is white at the moment.
Show IP v 6 0 SPF neighbor.
We are forming a neighbor relationship with a broader with neighbor I.D. one dot wandered wandered one
on the side show IP vs 6 0 SPF and neighbor notice the neighbor relationship has now moved to extort
and has just moved to full so you can see the neighbor relationship went to full they brought a 1 is
a PDR and on this side we can see that rather it too is the designated Rada.
So we have formed a neighbor relationship
with the other Rada without enabling an IP version 6 address on the gigabit 0 interface.
So notice there is no IP version for address and there is no IP vs 6 address enabled on this interface.
And the same is true on the site but we do have a whisper from neighbor relationship with the other
router.
And if we look at the writing table we can see at the moment that we have a local network in the writing
table but no other rights exist.
They show IP vs 6 Rada shows us that a link local addresses configured on gigabit 00 so show IP vs 6
interface gigabit 00 shows us that the interfaces up IP B6 is enabled.
This is the link local address on the interface.
This writer has joined various multicast groups including two with P.F. groups.
This is all devices on the local segment on the side show run interface gigabit 0 0 or show IP vs 6
interface gigabit 00 rather shows us the link a local address on the side so to prove that writing works
on Route 1.
I'll configure a loop back IP address so IP 6 address and in this case we'll call it 2001.
Facebook 1 Colin Colin 1 slash 128 on the site interface looped back 0 IP vs 6 address 2001.
Facebook
colon colon to 128.
Notice those are 128 networks so these two are separate networks show IP vs 6 around.
We have a loop back address in the writing table but we don't see this address because we need to advertise
and that network into a SPF.
So now once that network gets advertised we should see it available in the writing table of Rider 2.
And there you go.
We have learnt about Facebook one via the link local address of root of one.
Once again show IP vs 6 interface gigabit.
0 0.
This is the link local address of writer 1 and that's the address that we are learning.
The router from on the side show IP vs 6 root we haven't learnt about to look back on the side and I
think I made a mistake.
So let me double check the configuration I made to this zero rather than a two.
So what I'll do is remove that IP address and put it back
as to Colon column to IP Peavey six SPF 1 area zero once that network gets advertised we should see
it on broad a one and there you go.
The branch is now available on Route 1 So we've learnt the address via o SPF let's try and ping the
address.
What do you think.
Will it work.
Sipping IPD six this address.
Does it work.
Yes it does.
We can ping the loop back of broader to on this side show IP vs 6 round.
Can we ping
the loop back.
Yes we can.
Notice you don't have to specify IP vs 6.
The rod is intelligent enough to work out with that this is an IP vs 6 ping debug IP vs 6 ICMP.
Let's do that ping again
notice we see that an echo request was received and reply was sent.
So again the gigabit 00 interfaces of both these routers don't have either an IP version for dress or
an IP version 6 address configured as soon as we enabled IP version 6 on the interface a link a local
address was allocated as shown here and a twist a users link local addresses for neighbor establishment
and ranked advertisement.
And that's what I've demonstrated here.
If you enjoyed the video please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.